# Student-Performance-Analysis-using-Artificial-Neural-Networks-Naive-Bayesian-Decision-Trees

Educational data mining has received considerable attention in the last few years. Many data mining techniques are proposed to extract the hidden knowledge from educational data. The extracted knowledge helps the institutions to improve their teaching methods and learning process. All these improvements lead to enhance the performance of the students and the overall educational outputs. In this paper, we propose a new student’s performance prediction model based on data mining techniques with new data attributes/features, which are called student’s behavioral features. These type of features are related to the learner’s interactivity with the e-learning management system. The performance of student’s predictive model is evaluated by set of classifiers, namely; Artificial Neural Network, Naïve Bayesian and Decision tree. In addition, we applied ensemble methods to improve the performance of these classifiers. We used Bagging, Boosting and Random Forest (RF), which are the common ensemble methods used in the literature. The obtained results reveal that there is a strong relationship between learner’s behaviors and their academic achievement. The accuracy of the proposed model using behavioral features achieved up to 22.1% improvement comparing to the results when removing such features and it achieved up to 25.8% accuracy improvement using ensemble methods. By testing the model using newcomer students, the achieved accuracy is more than 80%. This result proves the reliability of the proposed model.
